look guys I've remarked recently that
the difference between me and many of my
detractors here on YouTube is shallow
even if it's very obvious and could be
easily resolved in many cases even if
the conflict has been red-hot I can say
in some of these cases all that's needed
to get over them is for people to say
they're sorry apologize for lying
apologize for defaming me and you know
let's be reasonable human beings and
move on whether or not that's for the
sake of a personal friendship or
connection between those two people
whether or not it's just for the sake of
conviviality here on YouTube within the
digital vegan demi-monde or whether it
is in another sense for the future of
the movement right it's a real question
I get asked why can't I cooperate with
somebody like a natural vegan somebody
who has so many things fundamentally in
common with me a natural vegan is
anti-religion she is pro science she has
taken up courageous positions on some
issues that are unpopular within
veganism to give credit words do I mean
she really challenged a lot of vegan
assumptions about the use of pesticides
about genetically modified organisms in
farming about medicine itself I never
saw her take on the natural hygiene
people or you know people with soap and
clothes but in general she has in in a
context in a social context that was
dominated by fruitarian naturopathic
hype she took a very interesting and
challenging moral position of saying
that she was not going to fetishize
nature neither in the context of natural
hygiene or the natural diet and you know
she was going to challenge our
assumptions about science in the modern
world the role of science and technology
including biotechnology within veganism
and so on so you know there are obvious
grounds there for mutual respect and
cooperation but you know less than that
at a lower level even than cooperation
there are grounds for debate and I think
of maybe a simpler more fundamental
question asked wouldn't be why can't a
natural vegan and I cooperate it might
be
why can't we even disagree okay I see so
many people going after me in terms of
ad hominem attacks where the whole point
of their video is not even to explicate
what it is they disagree with me on as a
matter of fact it's just to explicate
what a terrible person i am and
therefore my opinion is invalid
the problem with ad hominem attacks
really is that it distracts us from it
directs their attention away from what
we really should be debating and I feel
that many of these debates are worth
having it's always been for me a kind of
sad irony that unnatural vegans mean
position on me is that I'm incapable of
hearing criticism I'm incapable of
engaging in debate and then she goes on
to in an offhand way accused me of
pseudoscience and of being a cult-like
leader comparable to during Ryder people
forget she got ad hominem with me right
off the bat and the real difference
between us never gets delineated and
never gets debated so in a much lower
level even than cooperating I think the
question is why can't we even disagree
and again I've just lately been looking
at people who are still trying to
villainize me and defame me over my
position on mental disability okay now
it's an interesting enough example I'm
gonna get back to a natural vegan but
let's outline what this is my position
is that again I come out of a political
science background equality in terms of
human rights does not equate to equality
in terms of responsibilities this is not
even debated we're all equal in a sense
and yet we are not all equally entitled
to drive a car we are not all equally
entitled to perform surgery certain
kinds of responsibilities like being a
surgeon or performing a surgery involve
all kinds of special rights privileges
responsibilities whoever you want to say
it and we are by no means equal in
asking to exercise those privileges or
and actually exercising them for one
person performing a surgery is a job and
for another it's a crime for one driving
a car with a driver's license is
permitted and without one it's a crime
and my whole point
this isn't a distraction from my point
this is an illustration of my point this
is my point about mental disability
mental disorders of any kind including
personality disorders in the broadest
sense there's a whole range of mental
impairments that would render you unfit
to serve as a police officer it's an
example but it actually isn't an
illustration on that point this is my
point now I myself have actually applied
I've gone through like step one of
becoming a police officer in Canada at a
few different points but I talk to
people in Canada people who were police
officers already about the process and
got information and at several points
people have said to me that they they
would like to recruit me or the be
interested they think I would make a
good police officer
not worth explaining why and maybe
they're wrong maybe I would be a
terrible police officer ok the reason
why I use the police officer as an
example being a police officer doesn't
require brilliance doesn't require
genius above all else being a police
officer requires reliability and many of
the people who disagree with me
vehemently on this issue of mental
disability again in a very very broad
sense ranging from personality disorders
to other forms of mental impairment they
often argue that even somebody with
schizophrenia diagnosed case of
schizophrenia if they're receiving
treatment if they're receiving therapy
if they're taking their drugs they're
taking their meds then they may live a
normal life 90% of the time
95% of the time 99% of the time but
guess what for being a police officer
that's not good enough then you know
what if you have schizophrenia diagnosed
case of schizophrenia and you look at
what a normal police officer does in his
day
maybe that person can do 99% of the job
99% of the time whether it's you know
traffic tickets enforcing you know the
incredibly dull banal world of paperwork
and enforcement and regulation that
police officers do there's no doubt a
large part of the job is boring and
almost anybody could do it okay but
there's a question here of reliability
and if you're talking with someone with
a disorder and they live they are
perfectly normal they may even be
exemplary the majority of the time but
once in a while they have a seizure once
in a while to have an emotional
breakdown once in a while their disorder
interrupts the normalcy of their life in
a way that causes them to behave
erratically or irrationally or act out
that's a problem and there are many jobs
they can do in life but being a police
officer is not one of them
even though a police officer only makes
life-and-death decisions once in a while
maybe once or twice in their whole
career a police officer is really in a
life-and-death situation even though
police office job it may be stressful
sometimes and other times may be boring
there are requirements here there are
hard requirements that do exclude people
with a whole range of disorders whether
that's bipolar disorder or borderline
personality disorder or schizophrenia
and it's easy sympathetically to put
yourself in the position of somebody
doing the hiring if you're the Chief of
Police and you're sitting there and
drawing up the guidelines or you are
doing the interview for someone who
wants to be a cop and you see that they
are diagnosed with one of these serious
disorders or a serious mental disability
this is why I'm treating them in one
category for you making that decision to
put a gun in somebody's hands to put
handcuffs in somebody's hands to put a
badge in somebody's hands and give them
the power of life and death are you
going to hire someone who is a
schizophrenic on medication as opposed
to someone who is not that again that is
my position this isn't illustrating my
position this is my position and then I
asked the question to what extent if
we're being honest if we're not playing
the game of just flattering people with
serious disorders serious mental
disabilities etc to what extent are we
getting into certain types of
responsibility that you know where these
things become problematic
I see people responding to this in every
possible way
blackening my character because they
find this so shocking they find this so
upsetting that I would speak in a
down-to-earth way about the fact that
again it's not an inequality in human
rights it's an inequality in terms of
responsibilities that we can take on and
ultimately it's just that an inequality
that has to do with reliability as I've
said reliability is really the word here
I've seen people defaming me and
blackening my character and saying what
a terrible human being I am in so many
ways and you know what I've never seen
and never heard is a single person
responding this actually disagreeing
with the point I've just made I have
never seen a single person disagreeing
with the premise and saying that no you
should have police who are neurodiverse
we have these catchphrases that it would
be a good thing
to hire a police officer who is a
schizophrenic that would be a good thing
to have more police officers who are
schizophrenic have bipolar disorder
borderline personality disorder not one
has actually disagreed with the content
of my argument because that's what the
content of my argument is and this is
why ad hominem attacks are such a
problem you can get into saying what a
terrible person I am and fill a
20-minute video whatever we can carry on
this debate forever without anyone
delineating what their own position
actually is delineating what their
disagreement with me actually is or
debating the point itself and I'll say
it's the thing this is not private
I remember among the people who disagree
with me politely on this which is a tiny
matter I remember mod vegan made a
comment which is
reasonable but disagreeing with me in
terms of what I say about mental
disability and what have you and I put
to her the example I said okay so if you
are hiring a babysitter for your own
child a certain kind of responsibility
is required certain kind of reliability
is required are you actually claiming
that it does not matter to you that
you're willing to hire someone as a
babysitter for your children who's
diagnosed with schizophrenia diagnosed
with bipolar disorder has another very
serious very grave disorder disability
personality disorder or what have you
again I'm using a broad category here
because I'm not trying to conflate these
things as if it were the same I'm
talking about the limits of
responsibility and reliability and in
relation to that question for the
purpose of this conversation they all
fit into one category because that's
what I want to discuss and Maude vegan
wrote back to me and she said I mean you
know she still disagrees with me it's a
polite disagreement but she had to
concede the point
now that's imagining yourself in the
position of the person doing the hiring
that you're the person hiring the police
officer or you're the person hiring the
babysitter there's another perspective
here I would invite you to sympathize
with instead of just responding to me in
this ad hominem way what if you're the
person being arrested what if you're the
child being taken care of
by that babysitter dealing with an
authority figure whether it's a police
officer or something like a border guard
like being interrogated at the border by
a border guard or something if you've
ever been in that situation being
interrogated the border or being
targeted by a police officer and the
person interrogating you is just a
little bit incompetent just a little bit
crazy just a little bit incomprehensible
and you're in no position to question
them or correct them and you're sitting
there trying to answer their questions
trying to go with it it's terrifying
I've never had to deal with a cop or a
border guard who was schizophrenic or
having an emotional breakdown or you
know
this kind of thing take a minute to
imagine if you're the child and it's
your babysitter or if you're the person
being arrested if you're the person
being interrogated okay again I come out
of a political science background I am
very comfortable talking about these
issues of human inequality in a way that
the majority people are not I appreciate
that and a lot of what goes on here on
the Internet is people who are just
looking for their opportunity to show
you how morally superior they're right
oh you said something I find insensitive
about mentally disabled people here's my
chance here's my chance to get on my
high horse and judge you show show to
the crowd show to anyone who will listen
on YouTube how morally superior am to
you and guys it's a funny example but if
you watch the recent video I did for
example for example on a Nishan an
isiand sex life that's not what I'm
doing
it would be so easy to say here's my
chance to show you how morally superior
I am too innocent and I don't do that I
actually in a kind of sympathetic and
helpful in constructive way say hey look
an SDN is messed up here's where it's at
and you know growing up part of what
we're doing is honing our social
instincts we're practicing these
behaviors again and again what does it
mean to seem sensitive what does it mean
to seem responsible what does it mean to
seem politically savvy and you know
there's a flipside to that which is
honing your antisocial instincts which
is practicing how do I challenge these
presuppositions how do I challenge
people's assumptions how do I get people
to reevaluate things they may have never
questioned or may have learned not to
question for so many years when I was
working like you know in the nonprofit
sector in the charity sector
broadly speaking humanitarian sector
broadly speaking in Cambodia you know I
can remember talking to people about the
strange ego trips
that the target populations get into the
recipients get into you can talk to
people who all their life have been
beneficiaries of charity and it can have
really strange impacts on their
perception of the world where you know
if you're talking about a person in
Cambodia who's become accustomed to
someone flying from Switzerland to
Cambodia and getting off an airplane
just to help them that has an impact on
their view of the world you know and I
mean when I was in Canada talking to
people who were deaf part of the the
deaf community their whole view of
politics of the function of government
because they were really used to most of
their political struggles are demanding
more handouts and more support for the
government they're used to the
government providing them with their own
schools and their own curriculum and
helping them to such a radical extent
their perception of politics remarkably
different from yours or mine assuming
you're not deaf because you're able to
hear this video it's true that you know
again the social instincts the
charitable instincts step by step they
can draw you into a set of assumptions
that everyone in the game perceives as
charitable and well intentioned and kind
and morally good but that also step by
step are leading you further and further
away from reality especially the
harshness of political reality it's so
easy and it would be so rewarded for me
to say flattering things about the
mentally disabled people with serious
mental disorders and personality
disorders it would be so easy for me
cynically to play to the crowd the way
these other people do and I'm not doing
that okay instead there's something that
it really is a practical problem in my
own life even just in this kind of
discourse than feeding them saying no I
want to talk about this honestly I want
to talk about the risks and the
consequences of how we handle people who
have serious disorders whether their
personality disorders mental
disabilities etc within the movement
okay unnatural vegan and I do not differ
on a trivial or shallow matter we differ
on the definition of ethical veganism
itself and the conflict I have with a
natural vegan for me it's most worrying
because it illustrates what how many
thousands thousands of thousands of
vegans are willing to overlook what's
morally wrong with her message and at
the same time to respond to me in the
challenge I posed by just launching into
ad hominem attacks
I guess my character and that's that's
what a natural being in herself did I'm
gonna pull you up a 1 second clip here
from a natural vegan in a video in which
if you read even the description below
the video she openly says she's
attacking or criticizing or rejecting
the claims of ethical veganism itself
[Music]
again she says that almost exactly the
same words in the text written below
that video that is her video number two
on tentative veganism as she phrases it
ok I've stated this before at length and
I've stated before in brief unnatural
vegan takes as central to her definition
of veganism the idea that not all use is
abuse that it is possible to have
animals being raised in captivity
domesticated animals being used as pets
being used to produce milk being used to
produce eggs and even being used to
produce meat it is possible to keep
animals in this way and to eat their
flesh or eat their eggs or eat their
milk or just keep them as pets to
decorate your home or play with without
exploiting them without harming them
and she comes to this perspective
logically starting from the intellectual
legacy of Peter Singer Peter Singer
already invites us to imagine a world in
which it is possible to kill an M an
animal without harming it I'll repeat
that Peter singers position is that you
can kill an animal without harming it
because he has a so-called cognitivist
position that animals do not understand
the future they do not think in terms of
Futurity and therefore depriving them of
their future he's depriving them of
nothing he believes it is possible to
kill an animal rapidly and painlessly
and in so doing you're not harming the
animal so it's a small but significant
lit logical step for someone like a
natural vegan to then claim that you can
castrate a dog without harming it and to
me that is not a trivial example ok dogs
like many other quadrupeds do literally
lick their own balls and this is
hardwired into their behavior in terms
of evolutionary behavior to some extent
you may or may not know this but the
reason why a male billy goat a goat that
is male has a beard as we say in english
it has a some extra long hairs around
its chin is because the male goat is
evolved in terms of evolutionary
behaviour it will put its head between
its legs and put hormones pheromones
whatever you wanna say onto that beard
all right so there are many quadrupeds
that both have a sense of smell that is
keenly linked to hormones and pheromones
of their own species so they can tell
which dogs are male which dogs are
female so that they can engage in mating
behavior and competitive behavior so
they can tell if a member of the
opposite sex is in heat there all these
behaviors that are linked to their sense
of smell and then believe it or not it's
gross from human perspective but yes
these animals do actually lick their own
balls so again this is not
at homonym this is not trivial unnatural
vegan starting from a Peter Singer
position took a further step into
inanity and into immorality from my
perspective in justifying the castration
of animals such as the castration of
dogs as something that does not harm the
animal now she has a problem here even
though I regard Peter singers position
already has deeply logically flawed as
wrong morally ethically and
philosophically Peter Singer at least is
talking about harming an animal after
which the animal is dead and so it
cannot be harmed any further so how do
we get from the position that you
couldn't suddenly kill an animal without
harming it to the position that you can
eviscerate an animal that you can
surgically alter an animal and then the
animal keeps living the animal survives
this and yet the animal is not harmed
she attempted to do this by claiming
that a dog is not even aware that it has
been castrated now the facts have
already laid out right now already make
it clear that this is impossible to
believe a dog literally licks its own
balls a dog can smell the difference
between male and female a dog of all
animals she did not pick it an example
that flatters our argument it is
actually scientifically impossible to
argue that castrating a male dog does it
no harm or harms it in a way that it's
incapable of perceiving itself alright
um no more broadly and more deeply I do
have to ask the question why why in her
two videos on tentative veganism why is
unnatural vegan attacking ethical
veganism per se because that's what
she's doing she the the phrasing is not
much different she says that moral
veganism is not defensible is not
sustainable whereas her view of the
world which she calls tentative veganism
she thinks is ok but the first premise
there that moral veganism is wrong how
is it that more than 10,000 people watch
that video who are vegan and they see
nothing wrong they
nothing alarming they see nothing
challenging with unnatural vegans
argument and not everyone's an idiot
there was a very short sharp to the
point response from a guy called think
about this I believe he's Australian I
forget if he's Australian or from New
Zealand but a guy called think about
this had a very hard-hitting video that
hit the nail right in the head and said
look unnatural vegan what she's doing is
anti vegan and ethically wrong because
unnatural vegan is defending the use of
animals which is true I mean both
technically and substantively he has
correctly identified one of the core
problems with her argument okay but a
little bit more broadly speaking why is
she making this argument at all it
completely makes sense to me that a
meat-eater would adopt her position
because her position is it is possible
to drink milk eat eggs or even eat the
flesh of an animal if that animal lives
under certain conditions and if that
animal is killed in a certain conditions
from my perspective now look this type
of rhetoric is only useful in some
circumstances but she chooses I have no
idea why she chooses example she chooses
examples that are incredibly
unflattering to her case like a an
elephant being kept in captivity or
backyard chickens backyard hens laying
eggs in someone's backyard
I didn't choose that example she did it
seems to me a remarkably weak example
for her to choose um she tries to
justify that you are not harming the
chicken by focusing on the fact that in
the act of laying the egg or in the act
of separating the chicken from its AG
like taking an unfertilized egg away
from a chicken you are not harming the
chicken right so this is true but it's
misleading sometimes on the level of
rhetoric it is useful to replace the use
of animals with the use of humans and
ask why is this logically viable or not
viable not all the time but it's a way
to approach these problems one of the
products traded on the free market is
human hair people buy and sell human
hair
partly to make wigs to make beauty
products and for other reasons why can't
I keep a human being in my backyard in
the equivalent of 8 of a backyard hens a
backyard chicken hunch why can't I keep
a human being in activity and every few
months shave off their hair have in
effect a factory for human hair with
human beings being raised in captivity
why the act itself if we're just looking
at taking the egg away from the chicken
if we're just looking at taking the hair
away from you me causes no suffering and
unnatural vegan extends this into you
know production of wool like happy wool
who could possibly have vegan wool
because in principle the Sheep doesn't
suffer and having it's its hair taken
away why well there are many many ways
we can approach this and actually I
don't like Gary France aione he
approaches this and I think a very
convoluted way but obviously we can say
it doesn't have to be in based on an
appeal to nature this person's life we
can say it is not natural for them to
live in captivity yes and we all know it
would appeal nature this person's life
should not be spent living in captivity
just to provide this you know this
product for human use it doesn't make
sense now what should the person be
doing I don't know it doesn't have to be
based on a sense of what is a natural
person for a life it doesn't have to be
based in a sense of what a human being
would do in nature it doesn't have to be
based on any particular sense of their
potential they could go to university
they could become a medical doctor that
could become an architect I don't know
um but the the context of this person
living and dying in captivity is already
shall we say ethically bizarre the whole
scenario that the production of happy
milk like ahimsa dairy which are at of a
separate video on the production of
happy milk or happy chicken eggs the
whole context is ethically bizarre
I do not have to appeal the nature to
say this chicken there is no
justification for it living in captivity
this way why is this chicken living its
life without knowing any male chickens
so again this is hen and [ __ ] is the
correct term and in English for easily
saying male and female chicken why is
this chicken not raising its own young
why is this chicken not wandering in the
forest why is this chicken not feeding
itself instead of being fed from a human
hand the whole context is ethically
bizarre now I don't think it's
inappropriate I don't actually think
it's a fallacy or logically weak for me
to talk about how chickens would live in
the wild what would be a natural life
for chickens in the same way that I
think we can talk about the lives of
feral pigs or pigs in the wild of wild
hogs in contrast to you know pigs being
kept as pets I think those are
meaningful contrasts to bring it to the
discussion and you can do it in a
responsible way or you can do it an
irresponsible way but it is not
inherently fallacious to contrast the
life of your chicken in a hutch in a
coop a chicken that never knew its own
mother or a chicken that doesn't have a
normal relationship between it and its
children or via its male may a chicken
that is not living anything like a
chicken would in the forest that this
this type of contrast to say this as an
appeal to nature fallacy is absurd and
the other hand to justify the context of
this chicken living in captivity
existing only for human needs and
existing only in dependency upon a human
being feeding it this is already I don't
have a better term for this already
ethically bizarre okay even if you
subscribe to Peter singers ridiculous
view that you can one day chop the head
off of this chicken without doing it any
harm or you believe that you can take
the eggs away from the chicken without
doing anything immoral why why why is a
natural vegan offering this critique of
ethical
what can she possibly win
aside from uplifting a category of
ethically permissible meat milk and
Angus from her perspective she is
defending a form of veganism that she
thinks is more philosophically robust
more rational whereas ethical veganism
from her perspective is deeply flawed
and untenable okay so this is a profound
disagreement between myself and her
because I am a hundred eighty degrees
the opposite
I believe that happy milk is ethically
untenable is irrational is internally
contradictory I think that the idea of
harm free chicken eggs or harm free wool
is ethically untenable and weakens
veganism and she takes these exceptions
to the rule and puts them at the center
of her discourse to promote a greater
they're not exceptions to rule but for
her they are she says these are
exceptions to the rule she puts them at
the center of her discourse she says not
all use is abuse and that she redefines
veganism and rejects ethical veganism to
instead promote so-called tentative
veganism okay bizarre bizarre
counterproductive and leads us into a
bunch of debates that aren't worth
having with the future of Venus veganism
anyway what I don't understand is why
her audience why she has more than
10,000 people on most of these videos
sheepishly nodding their heads in
agreement and supporting this position
when there's so much with it there's so
much self-evidently
wrong with it guys
on any of these ethical differences
mcboyd here in this video as a whole is
not actually that I'm right and she's
wrong
my point is for us to get beyond ad
hominem attacks on this stuff if you
think I'm wrong
fine make a video response to this write
an essay in response to it criticize me
explain why I'm wrong explain why Peter
singers write whatever your position is
fine but there's really no point in
saying that I'm a terrible human being
there's no point in reducing this to a
matter of personality traits that
separates good from evil that's not
going to delineate your argument that's
not gonna advance the debate even one
step and you know I do sympathize with
the other side I do sympathize that
there are people who heard what I have
to say the issue of schizophrenia and
hiring a police officer there are people
who are so shocked all their lives
they've only heard people saying the
most flattering and sensitive things
about question of mental disability and
so on I really do understand why there
are people respond to that they're
deeply shocked they're offended and they
feel they can only respond by laying
into what a terrible person I am and you
know when I watch that video from a
natural vegan I feel the same way I do
find it upsetting
I do feel even rage and incomprehension
and I'm you know I'm face palming and
I'm saying how can anyone be so stupid
how can she be such an idiot how can
these people be such idiots who agree
with this
and that's real and I even sympathize
the people who want to come on YouTube
and share that moment to moment the
rawness of that reaction
but sometimes for the future of the
movement for the sake of the debate
itself we got to put those feelings
aside and at least try to debate the
selves to the issue itself not get
bogged down in at hominem attacks